revolutionary guard has also released a
statement saying early this morning
that's Wednesday morning Ismael hania's
residence in tran was struck resulting
in the marthom of him and one of his
bodyguards it goes on to say the cause
is under investigation and will be
announced soon uh let's bring in abas
asani he's a senior research fellow at
the center for Middle East strategic
studies he joins us via Skype from the
Iranian Capital um abas you're our first
guest from Iran so it's really good to
get you now I mean how significant from
where you're sitting is this
assassination of Ismail hania and and
and how is this being viewed in Iran
where you are given the political
changes a new
president uh well you know the uh
significance relates to the official who
has been assassinated the quality of the
assassination and the I mean the place
he was assassinated in the capital city
and the context also is important
because he was assassinated on the I
mean just after the uh inauguration
ceremony of Iranian president and
meeting senior Iranian
officials um you know this you at the
moment that we speak and escalation
seems
inevitable uh on the same that new
Iranian president was speaking of
dialogue and engagement with the West I
think this is happening and this could
can somehow as somewhere predicting
could complicate the engagement process
between Iran and the west and natano
doesn't want this to happen uh also you
know we might be saying goodby for now
to the ceasefire because you know this
can escalate into a regional war and uh
so Israeli Prime Minister is trying to
do everything in order to
uh prolong his political life he wants
to somehow continue the war and I think
these are not just only meant to impact
the processes in Teran or in the region
but also in Washington as well he wants
to somehow impact the political campaign
in the United States maybe uh somehow
undermining the Democrats and giving
more chance to Donald
Trump and and how serious abas now is
that threat of escalation given that as
you say um you know it happened on
Iranian Soul we know Iran isn't afraid
to hit back at Israel so how is Iran
likely to respond then
militarily uh well it's a bit early to
uh talk about the quality and the type
of the response but I think uh a
retaliation will be inevitable and Iran
has no choice but to respond to this
action uh I think I think they will U
study and investigate that in what
methods and how they can respond to this
as you know previously when Iran's
Embassy was targeted in Damascus Iran uh
responded directly to Israel uh but it
does not necessarily need to be the same
way but I think Iran will need to
respond because this is happening in the
capital city and I think we will need
some time to study that what options are
available and how Iran can respond in
order to uh you know to revive the
deterrence but for sure Teran has been
insisting that it does not want a
origional war but it seems that the uh
Israel wants to push different parties
into this war because they want to
lengthen this process and uh the point
is that at a time that the uh us
government is on its you know final
months in the office you know its
restraining impact and influence on
Israel is also uh decreasing and this
somehow increases the chance of an
unpredictable scenario in the situation
however a a an allout War a an expand
you know a war which could include all
the region is not something that Iran
wants but this is a scenario that Israel
is pushing different parties including
Iran to the side but I think we have to
be watching that what options are
available that Iran can respond through
uh a original War you know is more
likely than ever we need to fasten our
seat belts but we have to wait and see
that you know how this type of you know
response could be because yesterday we
had an attack on Beirut uh later in at
night or early morning hours you know
this assassination happen and I think
this cycle of you know actions and
reactions might continue in the days to
come and it's important that uh what
role other players like in the United
States will be playing in this regard uh
in order to contain the situation abas
let me get a let me ask you uh another
question here do you think this will be
seen uh as a failure by Iran Security
Services I mean they knew Hano was a
Target Israel made no secret that it
wanted to take out hamas's leadership um
that actually happened they killed him
on Iranian soil did Iran Security
Services fail uh somewhere along the
line here given that he was
assassinated uh for sure what happened
in R was a bad thing for the Iranian
security apparatus and uh the point that
tan might be feeling that Israel wants
to undermine it deterrence and that's
why Iran will uh somehow feel that it
has to respond to this uh and uh I think
at the time that uh Israel was somehow
losing FL in international support or
you know uh had some you know was in a
difficult situation in order to prolong
the War uh Israel wants to change the
rules of the game and it wants to
somehow uh change the uh deterence
balance against tan so from from this
perspective this is not a good news for
the security apparatus in tan uh and you
know its positions or strategies when it
comes to the regional you know uh
developments that's why I think a
retaliation or response might be
inevitable from Uranian side but I'm not
quite sure about the quality yet I think
it is yet to be
determined uh but this was also from a
security perspective very significant
for Iran yeah possibly a failure um let
me get a final thought from you then
abas before you go I mean how is Iran
viewing any hope for a ceasefire and
Gaza because it's Gaza uh that's
triggering all the other Regional
conflicts uh within the
region you know every time that there
were efforts or negotiations for a
ceasefire in the region you know uh on
the final hours or days of those
negotiations there was a pretext from
the Israeli side that they wouldn't
accept the I mean the ceasefire it was
you know clear enough that nanahu didn't
want a ceasefire and by these actions
and efforts in order to escalate into a
regional war or at least uh you know in
a to a broader conflict in the region uh
and you know which could have tensions
that could uh make this war longer it
seems that Israelis do not want you know
this ceasefire and from Iranian
perspective Netanyahu and Israel has
been a major obstacle for achieving the
ceasefire and you know by what happened
yesterday and I me last night in
tan it seems you know more clear and uh
that Israel does not want a ceasefire
and uh we have to be seeing maybe this
conflict going on in the uh weeks or
months to come this is not something
thatan
but this is the thing that practically
Israel tryes to uh you know make Happ it
all right abas asani there're live for
us in the Iranian Capital uh with the
reaction and Analysis there from Iran
thank you very much indeed for your
time make sure to subscribe to our
channel to the latest news from Al jazer